# Recommendation-System

INTRODUCTION/ STATEMENT OF PROBLEM:

The treasure trove of readily available data provides for new opportunities for making recommendations using sophisticated analytical techniques. Consumers have infinite choices and no user has enough time to look through all the products. The goal of this project was to develop a data-driven book recommendation system wherein the recommender will make recommendations on which book to read next based on books previously read, genre, authors of interest, general popularity and curation and various other factors. The main objective of this project was to use ratings from similar users to provide proximate recommendations. I implemented this through the application of various algorithms within Recommenderlab such as collaborative filtering. Recommendation System plays an important role in consumers finding the content they need without having to spend on things they do not like. Different users have different preferences and requirements and recommender systems enhance user experience and prevent users from getting overwhelmed by choice.

REASONS BEHIND THE CHOICE OF ANALYTICAL TECHNIQUE(S). EXPLAIN WHY THE TECHNIQUE IS SUITABLE FOR THE QUESTION(S) BEING ADDRESSED:

User Based Collaborative Filtering was the most appropriate technique to use to solve our primary problem of making book recommendations based on user ratings where ‘similarity’ is measured against similarity of users. In today’s world, this is an essential feature in order to secure a sufficient bottom-line in business and keep customers actively engaged. Recommender System is like a salesman recommending a product but rather a virtual one without any human curation but a better curation based on succinct and quantitatively backed algorithms with proximate accuracies.

Recommender Systems encapsulates a user-product relationship, a product-product relationship and a user-user relationship. These relationships can provide systems with tremendous insight as well as an understanding of customers. The insight understood can be monetized as relevant suggestions often lead to accurate recommendations eventually leading to sales. Personalized content or service can be an addiction or menace depends on how the user interprets it. It can provide related content as well create an unconscious bias among users. Personalization increases help achieve better customer experience and user experience to the system. It is like a trade-off, a sweet spot should be met between privacy and personalization for the users. In case of book recommendations, personalization and customer satisfaction is key to convert a potential shopper into a customer.
I implemented the technique through the application of various algorithms within Recommenderlab such as Collaborative Filtering using the UBCF algorithm. I also coded our own 3-step algorithm that yielded results in accordance to the UBCF algorithm. The traditional UBCF approach selects k-nearest neighbors from candidate neighbors comprised by all users; however, this approach cannot achieve a great deal of accuracy and coverage values simultaneously. To combat this shortcoming, I experimented with a new approach using a 3-step algorithm. However, both algorithms yielded the exact same predictions.
